>>> ON THIS EDITION FOR SUNDAY
APRIL 6th, NEW CLUES ABOUT THE
MISSING MALAYSIA JETLINER.
>>> MEXICO HE'S GROWING ECONOMY,
WHAT IT MEANS FOR THE UNITED
STATES
>>> AND WATER ON ONE OF SATURN'S
MOONS.
WHAT IT TELLS US ABOUT THE
POSSIBILITY OF LIFE THERE.
>>> NEXT ON PBS NEWS HOU
WEEKEND.
>>> FROM THE WNET STUDIOS IN
LINCOLN CENTER, NEW YORK
>> GOOD EVENING, THANKS FO
JOINING US
AUTHORITIES IN AUSTRALIA SAI
TODAY ONE OF THEIR SHIPS HAS
PICKED UP AN UNDERWATER SIGNAL
THAT COULD BE FROM THE BLACK
BOXES OF A MALAYSIAN JETLINE
THAT DISAPPEARED A MONTH AGO
BUT THAT SIGNAL WAS DETECTED 300
MILES FROM THAT AREA IN TH
INDIAN OCEAN WHERE A CHINESE
SHIP HAS REPORTED HEARING TW
SIGNALS POSSIBLY CONNECTED T
THE MISSING 777.
AUTHORITIES SAY FALSE POSITIVE
CAN COME FROM SEE ANIMALS,
INCLUDING WHALES, OR FROM OTHE
SHIPS.
>>> A DRAFT UNITED NATIONS
REPORT SAYS DRASTIC CURBS TO
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS NEED TO
LESSEN, OTHERWISE THERE IS A
RISK TO FOOD AND WATER SUPPLIE
AND WILL LEAD TO DANGEROUS HEA
WAVES, FLOODS, DROUGHTS AN
RISING SEAS.
THE REPORT SAYS THE USE OF
RENEWABLE AND LOW-CARBON ENERG
SOURCES NEED TO AT LEAST TRIPL
BY 2015 TO SLOW THE PACE O
CLIMATE CHANGE
>>> IN TOKYO TODAY, DEFENS
SECRETARY CHUCK HAGEL CRITICIZED
NORTH KOREA AND SAID THE U.S
WILL SEND TWO MISSILE DEFENS
SHIPS TO THE REGION BY 2017 IN
RESPONSE
HAGEL COMPARED CHINA'S RECEN
ACTIONS OVER DISPUTED ISLANDS IN
THE EAST CHINA SEA TO RUSSIA'S
RECENT ANNEXATION OF CRIMEA.
>> YOU CANNOT GO AROUND TH
WORLD AND REDEFINE BOUNDARIE
AND VIOLATE TERRITORIA
INTEGRITY AND SOVEREIGNTY OF
NATIONS BY FORCE, COERCION AND
INTIMIDATION
WHETHER IT IS IN SMALL ISLANDS
IN THE PACIFIC OR LARGE NATION
IN EUROPE.
>>> TO THE TO THE MIDDLE EAST,
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU RESPONDED T
REPORTS THE PALESTINIA
AUTHORITY WILL SEE
INTERNATIONAL RECOGNITION RATHER
THAN WAITING FOR A U.S. BROKERED
PEACE DEAL WITH ISRAEL
>> Translator: THE PALESTINIAN
HAVE MUCH TO LOSE BY TAKIN
UNILATERAL STEPS
THEY HAD ONLY ACHIEVE A STAT
THROUGH A DIRECT NEGOTIATION
NOT BY EMPTY DECLARATION O
UNILATERAL MEASURES.
UNILATERAL STEPS ON THEIR PART
WILL BE ANSWERED BY UNILATERAL
STEPS FROM OUR SIDE.
WE ARE WILLING TO CONTINUE WIT
THE TALKS, BUT NOT AT ANY COST
>> THE PALESTINIANS SAY THEY SET
THEIR NEW COURSE AFTER ISRAE
REFUSED TO COMPLY WITH A
AGREEMENT TO RELEASE ADDITIONA
PALESTINIAN PRISONERS.
>>> A COURT IN PAKISTAN HA
IMPOSED A DEATH SENTENCE AGAINST
A PAKISTANI CHRISTIAN MAN AN
HIS WIFE FOR A TEXT MESSAG
ALLEGEDLY INSULTING THE PROPHE
MOHAMMED
THE PAINTS OF THREE AR
APPEALING THE RULING
ANOTHER CHRISTIAN MAN WA
SENTENCED TO DEATH THERE ON
BLASPHEMY CHARGE IN LATE MARCH
>>> MICHAEL HADEN, A FORMER HEAD
OF THE CIA TODAY, ACCUSE
SENATOR DIANNE FEINSTEIN O
LETTING HER EMOTIONS GET IN TH
WAY OF HER OBJECTIVITY I
CRITICIZING THE CIA'S ALLEGE
USE OF TORTURE IN THE AFTERMAT
OF SEPTEMBER 11th.
HAYDEN SAID THE PROGRAM HA
LADEN AND HE REFUTED ALLEGATIONS
THE CIA MISLED CONGRESS ABOU
THE USE OF WHAT CAME TO BE KNOWN
AS ENHANCED INTERROGATION.
>> I WAS THE ONE WHO DECIDED T
INFORM ALL THE MEMBERS OF TH
HOUSE AND SENATE INTELLIGENC
COMMITTEES TO MOVE THE PRISONERS
OUT OF THE BLACK SITES T
GUANTANAMO AND ACTUALLY GO
PUBLIC WITH A SIGNIFICAN
PORTION OF THIS PROGRAM.
>>> A NEW WARNING TONIGHT ABOU
THE SAFETY OF NUCLEAR POWE
PLANTS IN THIS COUNTRY
AT LEAST TWO DOZEN REACTOR
WOULD NOT BE ABLE TO WITHSTAND
THE MOST SEVERE EARTHQUAKES THEY
WOULD FACE ACCORDING TO INDUSTRY
EXPERTS QUOTED BY "THE NEW YOR
TIMES.
NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSIO
MAINTAIN ALL OPERATING PLANT
ARE SAFE AND DO NOT NEED TO TAKE
REMEDIAL ACTION.
>>> NASA HAS RELEASED THIS
DRAMATIC VIDEO OF A SOLAR FLAR
FROM EARLIER THIS WEEK
FLARES ARE SHORT, POWERFUL
BURSTS OF RADIATION EMITTED FROM
THE SUN'S SURFACE.
NASA SAYS THE RADIATION CAN'
PENETRATE THE EARTH'S ATMOSPHERE
BUT ON RARE OCCASIONS CA
DISRUPT GPS AND OTHE
COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY
>>> PETER MATHESON, THE ONLY
AWARD FOR BOTH NON-FICTION AND
FICTION HAS DIED
HE WAS 86.
DURING AN INTERVIEW WITH JEF
BROWN ON THE NEWS HOUR IN 2008
MATHESON SHARED HIS THOUGHTS
ABOUT BOTH FORMS OF WRITING.
>> FICTION IS REALLY WHAT I WANT
TO DO AND ALWAYS WANT DODD
I AM A JOURNALIST, TOO
I WRITE ABOUT THE ENVIRONMENT.
I WRITE ABOUT SOCIAL PROBLEMS.
I WORK WITH CESAR CHAVEZ
I'VE WORKED A LOT WITH AMERICA
INDIAN PEOPLE.
THAT FASCINATES ME AND I WANT DO
THAT, BUT MY HEART IS REALLY
INTO FICTION
>>> WE WANT TO TAKE ANOTHER LOOK
TONIGHT AT THE LATES
UNEMPLOYMENT REPORT.
FOR MORE ABOUT THAT, WE AR
JOINED FROM WASHINGTON BY NELA
RICHARDSON, SENIOR ECONOMIST
WITH BLOOMBERG
WE'VE HEARD THAT ALL THE JOB
LOST IN THE RECESSION HAVE BEE
RECOVERED BUT QUITE A FEW PEOPLE
ARE SAYING NOT ALL JOBS AR
CREATED EQUAL.
ACTUALLY, IT IS AN IMPORTANT
MILESTONE, BUT IT IS A MILESTONE
THAT DOESN'T TELL THE WHOL
STORY.
THE QUALITY OF JOBS THAT HAV
BEEN CREATED IN THE PAST FIV
YEARS SINCE THE GREAT RECESSIO
ARE OF LESSER QUALITY AND LESSER
PAY THAN THE ONES THAT WER
LOST
AND THAT IS AS IMPORTANT TO TH
RECOVERY, THE QUALITY, AS TH
NUMBER OF JOBS CREATED EVERY
MONTH.
>> WHAT SORT OF JOBS DID WE LOSE
AND WHAT SORT OF JOBS DID WE
RECOVER?
>> SURE.
WELL, THE BLF ALSO PUT OUT
ANOTHER SET OF ANALYSES THAT
SAID OF THE TOP TEN JOBS, TE
OCCUPATIONS CREATED IN MARCH
NINE OF THEM ACTUALLY HA
AVERAGE WAGES BELOW WHAT THE
ANNUAL AVERAGE IS FO
OCCUPATIONAL JOBS.
ONLY REGISTERED NURSES MADE MORE
THAN THE AVERAGE
THE OTHERS WERE IN LOW-PAY JOB
LIKE CASHIERS OR SECRETARIAL
SERVICES, RANGING FROM ABOUT
$18,000 TO $34,000 ANNUAL, A
YEAR, WHEN THE AVERAGE IS ABOU
$44,000.
SO AGAIN WE'RE CREATING LOWE
PAY JOBS IN OUR BIGGEST SECTOR
THAN WERE LOST IN THE GREA
RECESSION.
>> ARE THESE JOBS OR THESE PAY
GRADES OR PAY SCALES KEEPING U
WITH INFLATION
>> WELL, THEY'RE BASICALLY
TREADING WATER RIGHT NOW
JANET YELLIN IN A RECENT SPEEC
SAID THAT, AT BEST, JOB WAGE
GROWTH HAS GROWN BY 2.25
PERCENTAGE POINTS.
WHEN YOU LOOK AT WHAT LOW-WAGE
WORKERS SPEND THEIR MONEY ON
FOOD AND ENERGY, THAT'S NO
KEEPING UP WITH THE BULK O
THEIR BUDGET
ENERGY PRICES HAVE GONE UP OVE
100% SINCE THE GREAT RECESSION
WE ARE LOOKING AT FOOD PRICE
THAT HAVE GONE UP ON AVERAGE
OVER 47%
SO A 2.25 YEARLY ANNUAL INCREASE
IN WAGES SIMPLY WON'T CUT IT FOR
A LOT OF AMERICANS
>> MOST PEOPLE LOOK AT THE STOCK
MARKET AND THE INCREDIBL
SUCCESS IT'S HAD IN THE LAST FEW
YEARS.
HOW COME THAT'S NOT TRANSLATIN
INTO GOOD PAYING JOBS?
>> THAT'S A GREAT QUESTION
IT IS A HARD QUESTION TO ANSWER.
RIGHT NOW COMPANIES ARE SITTIN
ON A LOT OF CASH, SO THE CASH IS
AVAILABLE TO CREATE NEW JOBS
THE QUESTION IS, IT IS THE
INCENTIVE.
ARE COMPANIES STILL FEARING RISK
COMING DOWN THE ROAD
IS IT A LACK OF DEMAND
THIS IS A QUESTION THAT NEEDS TO
BE ANSWERED BECAUSE WE ARE NOT
GETTING THESE GOOD QUALITY JOB
THAT THE MARKET NEEDS.
IT IS ALSO IMPORTANT T
UNDERSTAND THAT THE GOVERNMENT
ISN'T ADDING JOBS.
THEY'RE NOT PLAYING THEIR ROLE
EITHER
WE LOST 85,000 NET GOVERNMEN
FEDERAL JOBS LAST YEAR
SO YOU HAVE OUR TWO BIG SECTOR
SIMPLY NOT CREATING THOSE GOOD
PAYING JOBS ANYMORE.
>> LONG-TERM UNEMPLOYMEN
CONTINUES TO BE A PROBLEM.
>> RIGHT
3.7 MILLION AMERICANS HAVE BEE
OUT OF WORK FOR SIX MONTHS O
MORE
THERE ARE SEVERAL THINGS THA
PEOPLE ARE TRYING TO DO TO
SUPPORT THE LONG-TERM EMPLOYEE
ONE OF THE MOST HEADLINE O
WHICH IS EXTENSION OF TH
UNEMPLOYED INSURANCE BENEFIT
THAT'S STILL MAKING ITS WA
THROUGH CONGRESS
IF THAT IS NOT RESOLVED BEFORE
THE END OF THE YEAR, 4
HAVE UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS THA
NEED THEM WHO ARE STILL OUT OF
WORK SGLP THIS MIGHT BE AN
ECONOMIST DEBATE, BUT IS THI
STRUCTURAL UNEMPLOYMENT OR
CYCLICAL UNEMPLOYMENT AND WH
DOES THAT MATTER TO MOST
AMERICANS?
>> WELL, IT MATTERS.
IT IS AN ECONOMIST DEBATE THAT
ECONOMISTS TAKE VERY SERIOUSLY
IT MATTERS BECAUSE IF IT'S
INDEED CYCLICAL, THEN THE FE
POLICY OF KEEPING INTEREST RATES
VERY LOW AND WORKING THROUGH THE
MARKETS TO CREATE NEW JOBS WIL
WORK EVENTUALLY.
BECAUSE EVENTUALLY THESE LOW
INTEREST COSTS WILL INCENTIVIZ
COMPANIES TO CREATE THE JOBS
THAT WE'RE ALL WAITING FOR
BUT IF IT IS INDEED STRUCTURAL
MEANING THAT COMPANIES DO HAVE
JOB OPENINGS AND AMERICA
WORKERS SIMPLY DON'T HAVE TH
SKILLS TO MEET THOSE JOBS, THE
WE HAVE A WHOLE NOTHER CLASS O
PROBLEMS THAT WILL TAKE YEAR
AND LOTS OF MONEY TO RESOLVE
NOT JUST A FEW QUARTERS.
>> ALL RIGHT, THANKS SO MUCH
>> THANK YOU
>>> AND NOW OUR SIGNATUR
SEGMENT.
TONIGHT WE TAKE YOU TO MEXIC
WHICH IS OFTEN IN THE NEWS
BECAUSE OF ITS VIOLENT DRUG WAR.
OUR FOCUS IS SOMETHING
DIFFERENT, SOMETHING THAT GETS
MUCH LESS ATTENTION.
MEXICO'S GROWING ECONOMY
THOUGH IT IS STILL GRAPPLING
WITH WIDESPREAD POVERTY, MEXIC
IS NOW AMERICA'S THIRD-LARGEST
TRADING PARTNER AND SOME
ECONOMISTS NOW CALL THE NATION
OF 120 MILLION PEOPLE THE AZTE
TIGER.
NEWS HOUR SPECIAL CORRESPONDEN
MARTIN FLETCHER REPORTS.
>> Reporter:
>> THE NEWS COMING OUT OF TH
BRUTAL DRUG WAR WAGING I
MEXICO
>> Reporter: WHEN IT COMES T
MEXICO, THE NEWS IS OFTEN OF
DRUG CARTELS, VIOLENCE
>> MORE THAN 4,000 PEOPLE HAVE
BEEN KILLED.
>> Reporter: ILLEGAL
IMMIGRATION.
>> THE BORDER IS NOT SECURE.
>> Reporter: BUT THERE I
ANOTHER STORY IN MEXICO.
AMERICA, OF COURSE, HAS LONG
BEEN A MAGNET FOR MEXICA
WORKERS BUT MORE AND MORE JO
SEEKERS ARE COMING HERE.
STATES, ABOUT AN HOUR'S DRIV
FROM THE CAPITAL
IT IS A RELATIVELY CRIME-FRE
AREA
SOCIALLY, POLITICALLY, IT'S BEEN
STABLE FOR A LONG TIME, AND MORE
AN MORE INTERNATIONAL COMPANIE
ARE FLOCKING HERE.
OF ALL THE CITIES IN THE WORLD
THIS SMALL MEXICAN TOWN HAD TH
HIGHEST GROWTH LAST YEAR I
FOREIGN-DIRECT INVESTMENT.
THAT'S MONEY INVESTED DIRECTLY
INTO LOCAL BUSINESS.
AND ITS POPULATION IS GROWIN
RAPIDLY, TOO
WITH ITS COLONIAL CENTER,
UNESCO WORLD HERITAGE SITE AND
ITS NEW INDUSTRIAL PARKS, TH
POSTER CHILD FOR MEXICO'
BURGEONING NEW ECONOMY IS HERE
OSCAR, A LOCAL JOURNALIST,
REPORTS ON THE GROWTH OF THE
TOWN AND THE COMPANIES INVESTING
HERE
>> AMERICAN AIRLINES, SAMSUNG,
HONDA.
>> SIEMENS
GENERAL ELECTRIC AS WELL
>> YES
>> THIS MEANS LOTS OF JOBS FOR
THE PEOPLE
>> A LOT
>> Reporter: OSCAR WAS A
JOURNALIST 700 MILES AWA
UNTIL --
>> THE TEAMMATE THAT I HAD DIE
BECAUSE OF THE DRUG DEALERS.
>> HOW DID HE DIE?
>> THEY ARRIVE INTO THE HOUSE,
THEY BROKE INTO THE HOUSE AN
SHOT HIM INTO THE HEAD
HIM, HIS WIFE, THEIR TWO
DAUGHTERS, AND THE TWO GRANDMA
THAT WERE LIVING THERE
I SAID, NO, I DON'T.
I AM GOING TO EXPOSE MY LIFE
>> Reporter: HE MOVED HERE
>> THE TOWN GAVE ME A JOB, GAV
ME STABILITY AN GAVE ME AN
OPPORTUNITY TO GROW WITH M
FAMILY
>> SAFELY.
>> Reporter: IT IS BELIEVED AT
LEAST 70,000 PEOPLE HAVE BEE
KILLED IN MEXICO'S DRUG WARS
SINCE 2006
BUT THIS AREA NETTLED IN THE
COUNTRY'S INTERIOR HAS RAREL
BEEN TOUCHED, ONE OF THE LOWES
MURDER RATES IN THE COUNTRY.
IT IS FAR FROM STATES THAT HAV
THE HIGHEST INCIDENTS OF
HOMICIDE
NOW NEW GOVERNMENT REFORMS AIM
TO BRING ECONOMIC STABILITY AN
SAFETY BEYOND SMALL POCKETS LIKE
THIS AND EXTEND THEM TO MEXICO'S
120 MILLION PEOPLE
MEXICAN FINANCE SECRETARY --
>> PERHAPS KNOW THE COUNTRY HA
SUCCESSFUL YEAR AS WE DID LAST
YEAR IN TERMS OF CHANKING THINGS
IN MEXICAN ECONOMY IN ENERGY
TELECOMMUNICATIONS, FISCAL
FRONT, FINANCIAL REFORM.
THERE ARE MANY THINGS THAT MAK
THE PROSPECTS GOOD FOR MEXICO.
>> Reporter: TAKE THE AUTO
INDUSTRY
NEXT YEAR MEXICO SHOULD BECOME
AMERICA'S NUMBER ONE SOURCE FO
CARS EXPORTING MORE TO THE
UNITED STATES THAN JAPAN O
CANADA
AND LAST YEAR MEXICO'S
47-YEAR-OLD PRESIDENT ENRIQU
PENANYETTO BEGAN A SERIES OF
REFORMS TO OPEN UP THE MEXICAN
ECONOMY EITHER FURTHER
HE BROKE A 75-YEAR STATE OIL
MONOPOLY WITH A CONSTITUTIONAL
AMENDMENT ALLOWING PRIVATE
COMPANIES TO INVEST IN THE
INDUSTRY
ON EDUCATION, THE GOVERNMENT
BROKE THE TEACHER UNION'S HOLE
ON STOOL STAFFING BY PASSING A
BILL TO STOP THE SALE AN
INHERITANCE OF TEACHING JOBS
AND FOR BROADER ECONOMY, HE AN
HIS ALLIES INCREASED COMPETITION
BY PASSING NEW TAX AND BANKING
REFORMS.
THE PRESIDENT HOPES HIS REFORM
WILL BRING MORE SUCCESS STORIE
LIKE THE CANADIAN COMPANY THAT
MAKES THE LEARJET.
THEIR FACILITY IS JUST A
30-MINUTE DRIVE FROM THE CENTE
OF THE BOOMTOWN.
>> IN 2005 THERE WAS NOTHING
HERE
IT WAS A GREENFIELD.
>> Reporter: BOMBARDIER INVESTED
HALF A BILLION DOLLARS IN THIS
TO 1,800
TWO DOZEN MORE AVIATIO
COMPANIES JOIN THEM IN THE AREA.
THE NEW LEARJET 85 SHOULD BE
DELIVERED BY THE END OF THIS
YEAR
>> WE'RE MANUFACTURING IT FROM
HERE TO HERE
WE'RE MANUFACTURING FROM HERE TO
HERE
WE WILL DO THE WING ASSEMBLY
TOO.
>> Reporter: PARTS MANUFACTURE
IN MEXICO, TRUCKED TO WICHITA,
KANSAS FOR ASSEMBLY FOR
COMPANY HEADQUARTERED IN QUEBEC,
CANADA
THOUGH MEXICO'S ECONOMY SLIPPE
IN THE LAST QUARTER OF 2013,
ECONOMISTS EXPECT GROWTH T
REBOUND AND THIS FEBRUARY TH
CREDIT AGENCY MOODY'S UPGRADED
MEXICO TO AN A-RATING ON HOPES
THE GOVERNMENT WILL PUT THOS
REFORMS INTO ACTION.
THOSE REFORMS YOU ARE MENTIONING
HAVE BEEN SIGNED INTO LAW BU
HAVE YET FOR THE MOST PART TO BE
IMPLEMENTED.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
>> THE DISTANCE FROM SIGNING A
THEM IS A LONG WAY
>> REFORM IS CHANGE.
THERE'S ALWAYS RESISTANCE TO
CHANGE
>> Reporter: ALREADY THE
TEACHERS UNION HAS LAUNCHED
SERIES OF BITTER PROTESTS.
WHILE ANALYSTS LIKE POLITICA
SCIENTISTS BELIEVE THE INDUSTR
WILL NOT EASILY GIVE UP IT
POWER.
>> WHAT THE PRESIDENT WOULD LIKE
TO SEE IS A MORE COMPETITIVE
LEVEL PLAYING FIELD FORM O
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT, BUT TH
VESTED INTERESTS ARE VERY STRONG
AND THOSE VESTED INTERESTS ARE
NOT GOING TO GIVE UP WITHOUT A
FIGHT.
>> Reporter: CAN HE CARRY OU
HIS REFORM
HE IS DEFLECTING MEXICO'
NARRATIVE AWAY FROM THIS, TH
DRUG WAR THAT REALLY SAW A
SIGNIFICANT DEVELOPMENT.
>> IN MEXICO THE COUNTRY'S MOV
THE WANTED MAN, A NOTORIOU
MEXICAN DRUG LORD, HAS BEE
CAPTURED
>> Reporter: TO PARTLY THIS.
>> THE COMPANIES PLANS TO INVEST
$4 BILLION IN MEXICO
TO MANUFACTURING HUBS.
THERE'S A LOT OF TRUTH IN TH
STORY OF MEXICO'S INDUSTRIAL
GROWTH
DEMAND FOR MEXICAN-MADE GOOD
HAS HELPED DRIVE THE
MANUFACTURING SECTOR IN TH
COUNTRY.
MEXICO'S TRADE WITH THE UNITED
STATES AMOUNTS TO HALF A
TRILLION DOLLARS A YEAR AND BOTH
SIDES WANT THAT TO GROW.
MEXICO'S ALREADY AMERICA'S
THIRD-LARGEST TRADING PARTNE
AFTER CANADA AND CHINA
MEXICO'S ADVANTAGES OVER CHINA
ARE CLEAR.
IT'S CLOSER, SO HAS LOWE
TRANSPORT COSTS, AND ITS LABOR
COSTS ARE STATIC WHILE CHINA'S
ARE GROWING.
IT IS NOT JUST FACTORIES THA
ARE GROWING HERE
BACK HERE, THIS IS A GROWING
STATE OF THE ART BUSINESS PARK
HELPING TO PUT A NEW FACE ON
MEXICO ENCOURAGING COMMERCIA
INVESTORS.
>> WE HAVE A COMMERCIAL CENTER
HERE
WE HAVE TWO HOTELS
>> Reporter: 24 COMPANIES RENT
SPACE HERE, HALF FROM OVERSEAS
ACSA INSURANCE COMPANY
>> Reporter: 1,800 PEOPLE WORK
HERE
>> I'M GOING TO BUILD NINE MOR
BUILDINGS.
>> Reporter: HOW MANY OF THOSE
ARE ALREADY RENTED OUT
>> THREE
I ALREADY HAVE THREE RENTED.
>> Reporter: STILL, SKILLE
LABOR IS KEY TO MEXICO'S GROWTH.
ALL EMPLOYEES TRAIN HERE
100 GRADUATES A YEAR FIND JOBS
IN MEXICO'S GROWING AVIATION
INDUSTRY AND THEIR KEY MARKET IS
NORTH AMERICA.
THIS IS THE STUDENTS' FIRS
EXAMPLE AFTER THREE WEEKS OF
SCHOOL
THE PLANE SHOULD STAY IN THE AIR
FOR FOUR SECONDS
IT IS A WORK IN PROGRESS, LIKE
THE MEXICAN ECONOMY.
>>> AS MARTIN FLETCHER ROARE
SEVERAL WEEKS AGO, MEXICO HAS
NATIONAL HEALTH PROGRAM TO
COMBAT OBESITY
FIND OUT ABOUT THAT BY VISITIN
NEWSHOUR.PBS.ORG
>>> A REPORT PUBLISHED THIS WEEK
IN "SCIENCE" MAGAZINE OFFERE
NEW REMARKABLE DETAILS ABOUT THE
PRESENCE OF WATER ON ONE O
SATURN'S MOONS
IT ONCE AGAIN STIRRED TALK ABOUT
THE POSSIBILITY OF LIF
ELSEWHERE IN OUR SOLAR SYSTEM.
FOR MORE WE ARE JOINED FROM LO
ANGELES BY DAVID STEPHENSON OF
THE CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE O
TECHNOLOGY
HE CO-AUTHORED THE ARTICLE
SO TELL US ABOUT THIS MOON
YOU KNEW ABOUT IT QUITE A BI
ABOUT IT BEFORE BUT WHAT DID YOU
FIND AND HOW DID YOU FIND IT
>> SO WE KNEW ALREADY THAT
INCELLIDUS HAS GUISERS, WATE
COMING OUT OF CRACKS NEAR TH
SOUTH POLE BUT WE DIDN'T KNO
WHAT WAS BENEATH THE SURFACE
WHAT WE HAVE NOW DONE BY
TRACKING THE CASSINI SPACECRAFT,
AN ORBIT AROUND SATURN, WE
FIGURED OUT THERE MUST BE EXCESS
MASS UNDERNEATH THE ICE AT THE
SOUTH POLE
AND WATER WILL DO THAT BECAUSE
THIS IS AN OCEAN
IT IS ABOUT THE SIZE OF LAKE
SUPERIOR, PERHAPS EVEN LARGER.
AND IT IS ABOUT TEN KILOMETERS
THICK.
SO IT IS A LOT OF WATER.
>> SO WHY IS THIS EXCITING
FIRST OF ALL, THIS IS MAYBE
BASIC SCIENCE QUESTION
IF THIS PLANET IS FURTHER FROM
THE SUN THAN WE ARE AND IT I
INCREDIBLY COLD, A FEW HUNDRED
DEGREES BELOW ZERO, HOW IS I
EVEN POSSIBLE THAT WATER EXIST
THERE?
>> THE WAY WATER IS PRODUCED
THERE IS BY TIDES.
INCELLIDUS IS IN ORBIT AROUN
SATURN
ORBIT IS NOT CIRCULAR SO AS TH
ORBITER GOES AROUND SATURN I
GETS FLEXED, THIS HEATS THE IC
AND ALLOWS IT TO MELT, IN PART
A SIMILAR EFFECT HOPES I
EUROPA, WHICH IS A MOON OF
JUPITER.
>> SO IS IT POSSIBLE FOR THIS TO
MEAN THAT THERE IS LIFE THERE?
WATER WAS ONE OF THOSE THING
THAT WE ALWAYS LOOK FOR TO SEE
IF LIFE CAN EXIST.
RIGHT?
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
ACTUALLY, I THINK WATER IS QUITE
COMMON
LIQUID -- WATER IS PRESENT I
MANY OF THE ICY BODIES IN TH
OUT-OF-SOLAR SYSTEM.
I SUSPECT -- WE DON'T KNOW FOR
SURE
I THINK ONE OF THE INTERESTING
THINGS ABOUT INCELLIDUS AND ALSO
EUROPA IS THAT THAT WATER IS
LIKELY TO BE IN CONTACT WITH
ROCK UNDERNEATH THE OCEAN.
WHEN YOU HAVE WATER AND ROCK AND
ENERGY SOURCES, YOU HAVE
CHEMISTRY.
SO INDEED IT SEEMS TO CREATE A
LOT OF THE CONDITIONS THAT W
THINK ARE SUITABLE FOR LIFE.
>> ALL RIGHT
SO WHAT HAPPENS NEXT
THE CASSINI SPACECRAFT IS GOIN
TO CONTINUE ON FOR A COUPLE OF
YEARS.
IT WILL DO A COUPLE OF MOR
FLY-BYS OF THIS MOON
WHAT ARE YOU LOOKING FOR
>> WELL, CERTAINLY IT WOULD BE
NICE TO GET A LITTLE BIT MOR
INFORMATION.
WE'RE NOT GOING TO GET MOR
INFORMATION ABOUT THE GRAVITY,
WHICH IS THE METHOD THAT WE USED
TO REACH THIS RESULT
THE CASSINI MISSION WILL END B
COMING IN VERY CLOSE TO SATURN
GETTING INSIDE THE RINGS O
SATURN
AND THAT WILL BE REALL
EXCITING
IN 2017 WE'LL BE ABLE TO COLLECT
ADDITIONAL DATA ABOUT SATURN
AS FOR ENCELIDUS, WE HAVE TO
TALK ABOUT A MISSION SOME TIME
IN THE FUTURE, A DECADE OR SO,
AS INDEED WE SHOULD FOR EUROPA
AS WELL.
>> DAVID STEPHENSON FROM CAL
TECH JOINING US FROM CALIFORNIA,
THANKS SO MUCH
>> THANK YOU
>>> THIS IS PBS "NEWS HOUR
WEEKEND SUNDAY."
>>> FINALLY TONIGHT, A PREVIEW
OF AN UPCOMING EPISODE OF TH
PBS DOCUMENTARY SERIES, CALLED
"THE TRIALS OF MUHAMMAD ALI," IT
EXAMINES THE PERIOD AFTE
MUHAMMAD ALI WAS STRIPPED OF HIS
TITLE AFTER HE REFUSED TO SERV
IN THE MILITARY.
IT PREMIERS APRIL 14th
>> WITH JUST A SLIGHT SKIP O
THE HEART WE ARE THROUGH T
CHICAGO AND WE HAVE MUHAMMAD
ALI.
ARE YOU HEARING US FROM LONDON
>> YES, SIR, LOUD AND CLEAR.
HOW ARE YOU DOING TODAY?
>> WELL VERY
THANK YOU FOR APPEARING ON THE
SHOW
>> THANK YOU FOR ALLOWING ME T
COME TO YOU LIVE BY EARLY BIRD
SATELLITE.
>> LET ME JUST GET A FEW FACTS
STRAIGHT WITH YOU.
YOU ARE A PROFESSIONAL FIGHTER
RIGHT?
>> I AM A MINISTER OF TH
RELIGION OF ISLAM, ALSO.
>> A PROFESSIONAL FIGHTER AND
MINISTER AS WELL
>> YES, SIR.
>> DAVID SUSSKEIN WOULD LIKE T
ASK YOU SOME QUESTIONS
>> WELL I DON'T KNOW WHERE T
BEGIN.
FIND NOTHING AMUSING O
INTERESTING OR TOLERABLE ABOUT
THIS MAN
HE'S A DISGRACE TO HIS COUNTRY
HIS RACE AND WHAT HE LAUGHINGL
DESCRIBES AS HIS PROFESSION.
HE IS A CONVICTED FELON IN THE
UNITED STATES.
HE HAS BEEN FOUND GUILTY
HE WILL INEVITABLY GO TO PRISON.
AS WELL HE SHOULD.
HE IS A SIMPLISTIC FOOL AND
PAWN
>> MUHAMMAD ALI, ONE OF TH
GREATEST ATHLETES OF ALL TIM
HAS THE FIRST THREE-TIME
HEAVYWEIGHT BOXING CHAMPION OF
THE WORLD, HE THRILLED
ENTERTAINED AND INSPIRED US.
>> HE WAS GIVEN A MEDAL OF
FREEDOM BY THE PRESIDENT OF TH
UNITED STATES.
>> THE AMERICAN PEOPLE ARE PROUD
TO CALL MUHAMMAD ALI ONE OF OU
OWN.
>> ONE MORE STORY BEFORE W
LEAVE YOU TONIGHT.
PRO-RUSSIAN DEMONSTRATOR
CLASHED WITH POLICE AND THEN
STORMED GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS I
THREE CITIES IN THE EASTER
PORTION OF UKRAINE
THAT'S THE AREA OF UKRAINE NEA
THE BORDER WITH RUSSIA WHERE
TENS OF THOUSANDS OF RUSSIAN
TROOPS HAVE BEEN DEPLOYED.
THE ACTING PRESIDENT OF UKRAIN
CALLED AN EMERGENCY SECURITY
NEWS
JOIN US ON AIR AND ONLINE ON THE
NEWS HOUR TOMORROW
MARGARET WARNER REPORTS ON
WHAT'S AT STAKE FOR THE UNITED
STATES FOLLOWING YESTERDAY'S
VOTING IN AFGHANISTAN.
>>> THAT'S IT FOR THIS EDITION
OF PBS "NEWS HOUR WEEKEND.
THANKS FOR WATCHING.